---
title: "MySQL 4.1.5 リリース"
tag: "MySQL"
date: 2004-09-22 02:33:17 +0900
---

MySQL 4.1.5 (gamma) がリリースされました<br>
News from the ChangeLog:<br>
<br>
    Functionality added or changed:<br>
<br>
      * The Windows Installer packages are now making use of the Windows<br>
        Installer (MSI) and include a new MySQL Server Instance Configuration<br>
        Wizard that can be used to easily generate an optimized server<br>
        configuration and to apply core security settings.<br>
      * InnoDB: Added configuration option innodb_autoextend_increment for<br>
        setting the size in megabytes by which InnoDB tablespaces are<br>
        extended when they become full. The default value is 8,<br>
        corresponding to the fixed increment of 8MB in previous versions<br>
        of MySQL.<br>
<br>
    Bugs fixed:<br>
      * Fixed name resolving of external fields of subqueries if subquery<br>
        placed in select list of query with grouping. (Bug #5326)<br>
      * Fixed detection of using same table for updating and selecting in<br>
        multi-update queries. (Bug #5455)<br>
      * The values of the max_sort_length, sql_mode, and<br>
        group_concat_max_len system variables now are stored in the query<br>
        cache with other query information to avoid returning an incorrect<br>
        result from the query cache. (Bug #5394) (Bug #5515)<br>
      * Fixed syntax analyzer with sql_mode=IGNORE_SPACE. It happened to<br>
        take phrases like default .07 as identifier.identifier. (Bug<br>
        #5318)<br>
      * Fixed illegal internal field length of user variables of integer<br>
        type. This showed up when creating a table as select @variable.<br>
        (Bug #4788)<br>
      * Fixed a buffer overflow in prepared statements API<br>
        (libmysqlclient) when a statement containing thousands of<br>
        placeholders was executed. (Bug #5194)<br>
      * Fixed a bug in the server when after reaching a certain limit of<br>
        prepared statements per connection (97), statement ids began to<br>
        overlap, so occasionally wrong statements were chosen for<br>
        execution. (Bug #5399)<br>
      * Fixed a bug in prepared statements when LIKE used with arguments<br>
        in different character sets crashed server on first execute. (Bug<br>
        #4368)<br>
      * Fixed a bug in prepared statements when providing '0000-00-00'<br>
        date to a parameter lead to server crash. (Bug #4231, Bug #4562)<br>
      * Fixed a bug in OPTIMIZE TABLE that could cause table corruption on<br>
        FULLTEXT indexes. (Bug #5327)<br>
      * InnoDB: Fixed a bug that InnoDB only allowed a maximum of 1000<br>
        connections inside InnoDB at the same time. A higher number could<br>
        cause an assertion failure in sync0arr.c, line 384. Now we allow<br>
        1000, 10000, or 50000, depending on the buffer pool size. (Bug<br>
        #5414)<br>
<br>
