---
title: "MySQL 5.1.5-alpha リリース"
tag: "MySQL"
date: 2006-01-17 21:03:20 +0900
---

MySQL 5.1.5-alpha がリリースされました。<br>
この段階（ 0.0.5 ）にしては修正点が少ないですね。<br>
<br>
このバージョンのWindows版には、"mysqld-max.exe" と "mysqld-max-nt.exe" のみが含まれているそうです。<br>
<br>
<br>
-------------------------<br>
以下チェンジログ：<br>
■機能の追加と変更：<br>
<br>
- Added the XML functions ExtractValue() and UpdateXML(). ExtractValue() returns the content of a fragment of XML matching a given XPath expression. UpdateXML() replaces the element selected from a fragment of XML by an XPath expression supplied by the user with a second XML fragment (also user-supplied), and returns the modified XML. See Section 12.9, "XML Functions."<br>
<br>
- Added the --base64-output option to mysqlbinlog to print all binary log entries using base64 encoding. This is for debugging only. Logs produced using this option should not be applied on production systems.<br>
<br>
- Added the --port-open-timeout option to mysqld to control how many seconds the server should wait for the TCP/IP port to become free if it cannot be opened. (Bug #15591 (http://bugs.mysql.com/15591))<br>
<br>
- Two new Hungarian collations are included: utf8_hungarian_ci and ucs2_hungarian_ci. These support the correct sort order for Hungarian vowels. However, they do not support the correct order for sorting Hungarian consonant contractions; this issue will be fixed in a future release.<br>
<br>
- Plugins can now have status variables, that are shown in SHOW STATUS.<br>
<br>
<br>
■バグ修正：<br>
<br>
- InnoDB: Comparison of indexed VARCHAR CHARACTER SET ucs2 COLLATE ucs2_bin columns using LIKE could fail. (Bug #14583 (http://bugs.mysql.com/14583))<br>
<br>
- Creating a trigger caused a server crash if the table or trigger database was not known because no default database had been selected. (Bug #14863 (http://bugs.mysql.com/14863))<br>
<br>
- Issuing a DROP USER command could cause some users to encounter a hostname is not allowed to connect to this MySQL server error. (Bug #15775 (http://bugs.mysql.com/15775))<br>
<br>
- The --plugin_dir option was not working. Also fix error with specifying parser name for fulltext. (Bug #16068 (http://bugs.mysql.com/16068))<br>
<br>
- Attempting to insert into a table partitioned by LIST a value less than any specified in one of the table's partition definitions resulted in a server crash. In such cases, mysqld now returns ERROR 1500 (HY000): Table has no partition for value v , where v is the out-of-range value. (Bug #15819 (http://bugs.mysql.com/15819))<br>
<br>
<br>
■追加情報：<br>
<br>
- The Windows package, "mysql-noinstall-5.1.5-alpha-win32.zip", contains just the "mysqld-max.exe" and "mysqld-max-nt.exe" binaries; because "mysqld.exe", "mysqld-nt.exe", and "mysqld-debug.exe" have not been built for this version. If you previously used one of the latter binaries, you may need to adapt your settings.<br>
<br>
<br>
