---
title: "MySQL 5.0.22 リリース★セキュリティパッチ"
tag: "MySQL"
date: 2006-06-01 04:09:01 +0900
---

MySQL 5.0.22 がリリースされました。<br>
http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/mysql/5.0.html<br>
<br>
このバージョンでは、一点のセキュリティーホール （SQLインジェクション） に対する修正のみがなされています。<br>
<br>
<br>
-----<br>
以下、チェンジログおよびセキュリティ詳細情報<br>
<br>
■バグ修正：<br>
- Security fix: An SQL-injection security hole has been found in multibyte encoding processing. The bug was in the server, incorrectly parsing the string escaped with mysql_real_escape(). This vulnerability was discovered and reported by Josh Berkus <josh@postgresql.org> and Tom Lane <tgl@sss.pgh.pa.us> as part of the inter-project security collaboration of the OSDB consortium.<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
SQL-injection についての詳細情報は以下を参照ください.<br>
<br>
■Discussion<br>
An SQL-injection security hole has been found in multibyte encoding<br>
processing. An SQL-injection security hole can include a situation<br>
whereby when inserting user supplied data into a database, the user<br>
might inject his own SQL statements that the server will execute.<br>
With regards to this vulnerability discovered, when character set<br>
unaware escaping is used (e.g., addslashes() in PHP), it is possible<br>
to bypass it in some multibyte character sets (e.g., SJIS, BIG5 and<br>
GBK). As a result, a function like addslashes() is not able to<br>
prevent SQL injection attacks. It is impossible to fix this on the<br>
server side. The best solution is for applications to use character<br>
set aware escaping offered in a function like mysql_real_escape().<br>
<br>
However, a bug has been detected in how the server parses the output<br>
of mysql_real_escape(). As a result, even when the character set<br>
aware function mysql_real_escape() was used, SQL injection was<br>
possible. This bug has been fixed.<br>
<br>
<br>
■Workarounds<br>
One can use NO_BACKSLASH_ESCAPES mode as a workaround for a bug in<br>
mysql_real_escape_string(), if you cannot upgrade your server for<br>
some reason. It will enable SQL standard compatibility mode, where<br>
backslash is not considered a special character. To set this mode,<br>
enter the follow SQL statement on the server:<br>
<br>
    SET sql_mode='NO_BACKSLASH_ESCAPES';<br>
<br>
You can also set it globally for all clients, using<br>
    SET GLOBAL sql_mode='NO_BACKSLASH_ESCAPES';<br>
<br>
It can also be enabled automatically when the server starts by using the<br>
command-line option --sql-mode=NO_BACKSLASH_ESCAPES or by setting<br>
sql-mode=NO_BACKSLASH_ESCAPES in the server options file<br>
(e.g., my.cnf or my.ini, depending on your system).<br>
<br>
Backslash then becomes an ordinary character like any other. The<br>
result will be that queries will fail.<br>
This mode was implemented in MySQL version 5.0.1.<br>
<br>
<br>
■Solution<br>
This vulnerability of mysql_real_escape_string() is fixed in the<br>
latest certified binary releases of 4.1.16a and 5.0.17c, as well as in<br>
MySQL versions 4.1.20, 5.0.22, and 5.1.11-beta (not yet released).<br>
<br>
A function which is unaware of character sets (e.g., addslashes() in<br>
PHP) should not be used for escaping. Rather, use one which is character<br>
set aware, like mysql_real_escape_string().<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
