---
title: "MySQL 5.4.3-beta リリース"
tag: "MySQL"
date: 2009-10-13 15:04:13 +0900
---

MySQL 5.4.3-beta がリリースされました。これは MySQL 5.4 シリーズの最新ベータ版リリースです。<br>
MySQL 5.4 シリーズは、MySQL 5.1 をベースにして多CPU環境などのハイエンドなマシン環境での性能向上を大きな目玉としているメジャーバージョンです。<br>
MySQL 5.4 シリーズの詳細については以下のURLが参考になると思います。<br>
<br>
　　http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.4/en/news-5-4-x.html<br>
　　http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.4/en/installing.html<br>
　　http://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql-5.4-features/en/index.html<br>
　　http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.4/en/mysql-nutshell.html<br>
　　http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.4/en/configuration-changes-5-4.html<br>
　　http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.4/en/upgrading-from-previous-series.html<br>
<br>
<br>
　ダウンロードはこちらから：<br>
　http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/mysql/5.4.html<br>
<br>
<br>
　以下チェンジログ(5.4.3-beta):<br>
<br>
<br>
==========<br>
■機能の追加と変更<br>
<br>
* Incompatible Change: If you upgrade to MySQL 5.4.3 from an<br>
  earlier 5.4 release, the server may fail to start due to<br>
  changes in the default values of innodb_log_files_in_group and<br>
  innodb_log_file_size, which differ from those in earlier 5.4<br>
  releases. You should discard the old InnoDB log files and let<br>
  MySQL 5.4.3 create new ones. It is necessary to shut down your<br>
  current server cleanly so that no outstanding transaction<br>
  information remains in the log. The procedure to use depends<br>
  on the value of innodb_fast_shutdown used in your current<br>
  server:<br>
<br>
     + If innodb_fast_shutdown is not set to 2: Stop your<br>
       current MySQL server and make sure that it shuts down<br>
       without errors (to ensure that there is no information<br>
       for outstanding transactions in the log). Copy the old<br>
       log files into a safe place in case something went wrong<br>
       during the shutdown and you need them to recover the<br>
       tablespace. Delete the old log files and edit my.cnf if<br>
       necessary to specify the desired log file configuration.<br>
       Then upgrade to MySQL 5.4.3 and start the new server.<br>
       mysqld sees that no InnoDB log files exist at startup and<br>
       creates new ones.<br>
<br>
     + If innodb_fast_shutdown is set to 2: Shut down your<br>
       current server, set innodb_fast_shutdown to 1, and<br>
       restart the server. The server should be allowed to<br>
       recover. Then you should shut down the server again and<br>
       follow the procedure described in the preceding item to<br>
       change InnoDB log file size. Set innodb_fast_shutdown<br>
       back to 2 and start the MySQL 5.4.3 server.<br>
<br>
* Incompatible Change: The following list indicates InnoDB<br>
  configuration changes in MySQL 5.4.3, compared to previous<br>
  versions of MySQL 5.4. For a description of cumulative changes<br>
  in MySQL 5.4 compared to MySQL 5.1, see Section 1.4.1, "What<br>
  Is New in MySQL 5.4."<br>
<br>
  The default value of these system variables was changed:<br>
<br>
            Variable          Change in default value<br>
  innodb_autoextend_increment From 64MB to 8MB<br>
  innodb_buffer_pool_size     From 1GB to 128MB<br>
  innodb_log_buffer_size      From 16MB to 8MB<br>
  innodb_log_file_size        From 128MB to 5MB<br>
  innodb_log_files_in_group   From 3 to 2<br>
  innodb_read_io_threads      From 8 to 4<br>
  innodb_write_io_threads     From 8 to 4<br>
<br>
  These default value changes in most cases revert changes made<br>
  in earlier MySQL 5.4 releases. The result is that the defaults<br>
  are more similar to those in MySQL 5.1.<br>
<br>
* On Linux (and perhaps other systems), the performance of MySQL<br>
  Server can be improved by using a different malloc()<br>
  implementation, developed by Google and called tcmalloc. The<br>
  gain is noticeable with a higher number of simultaneous users.<br>
  MySQL 5.4.1 was linked against this library, which improved<br>
  performance but imposed some restrictions. As a result of<br>
  these restrictions, MySQL 5.4.3 uses a different approach:<br>
<br>
     + The server is linked against the default malloc()<br>
       provided by the respective platform.<br>
<br>
     + Binary distributions for Linux include<br>
       libtcmalloc_minimal.so (a shared library that can be<br>
       linked against at runtime) in pkglibdir (that is, the<br>
       same directory within the package where server plugins<br>
       and similar object files are located). The version of<br>
       tcmalloc included with MySQL 5.4.3 comes from<br>
       google-perftools 1.4.<br>
<br>
       If you want to try tcmalloc but are using a binary<br>
       distribution for a non-Linux platform or a source<br>
       distribution, you can install Google's tcmalloc.  Some<br>
       distributions provide it in a google-perftools package or<br>
       with a similar name, or you can download it from Google at<br>
       http://code.google.com/p/google-perftools/ and compile it<br>
       yourself.<br>
<br>
     + mysqld_safe now supports a --malloc-lib option that<br>
       enables administrators to specify that mysqld should use<br>
       tcmalloc.<br>
<br>
  The --malloc-lib option works by modifying the LD_PRELOAD<br>
  environment value to affect dynamic linking to enable the<br>
  loader to find the memory-allocation library when mysqld runs:<br>
<br>
     + If the option is not given, or is given without a value<br>
       (--malloc-lib=), LD_PRELOAD is not modified and no<br>
       attempt is made to use tcmalloc.<br>
<br>
     + If the option is given as --malloc-lib=tcmalloc,<br>
       mysqld_safe looks for a tcmalloc library in /usr/lib and<br>
       then in the MySQL pkglibdir location (for example,<br>
       /usr/local/mysql/lib or whatever is appropriate). If<br>
       tmalloc is found, its path name is added to the beginning<br>
       of the LD_PRELOAD value for mysqld. If tcmalloc is not<br>
       found, mysqld_safe aborts with an error.<br>
<br>
     + If the option is given as<br>
       --malloc-lib=/path/to/some/library, that full path is<br>
       added to the beginning of the LD_PRELOAD value. If the<br>
       full path points to a nonexistent or unreadable file,<br>
       mysqld_safe aborts with an error.<br>
<br>
     + For cases where mysqld_safe adds a path name to<br>
       LD_PRELOAD, it adds the path to the beginning of any<br>
       existing value the variable already has.<br>
<br>
  As a result of the preceding changes, Linux users can use the<br>
  libtcmalloc_minimal.so now included in binary packages by<br>
  adding these lines to the my.cnf file:<br>
<br>
  [mysqld_safe]<br>
  malloc-lib=tcmalloc<br>
<br>
  Those lines also suffice for users on any platform who have<br>
  installed a tcmalloc package in /usr/lib. To use a specific<br>
  tcmalloc library, specify its full path name. Example:<br>
<br>
  [mysqld_safe]<br>
  malloc-lib=/opt/lib/libtcmalloc_minimal.so<br>
<br>
  (Bug#47549: http://bugs.mysql.com/47549)<br>
<br>
<br>
■バグ修正<br>
* Performance: For MyISAM tables with bulk_insert_buffer_size<br>
  values larger than 256KB, the performance of bulk insert<br>
  operations such as multiple-row INSERT and INSERT ... SELECT<br>
  operations has been improved greatly when up to a hundred rows<br>
  are inserted at the same time.<br>
  (Bug#44723: http://bugs.mysql.com/44723)<br>
<br>
* Partitioning: Replication: Attempting to replicate an INSERT<br>
  ... SELECT statement on a partitioned table using row-based<br>
  replication caused the slave to crash.<br>
  (Bug#44108: http://bugs.mysql.com/44108)<br>
<br>
* Partitioning: When reorganizing partitions, not all affected<br>
  subpartitions were removed prior to renaming. One way in which<br>
  the issue was visible was that attempting to reorganize two<br>
  partitions into a single partition having the same name as one<br>
  of the original partitions could lead to a crash of the<br>
  server. (Bug#47029: http://bugs.mysql.com/47029)<br>
  See also Bug#45961: http://bugs.mysql.com/45961,<br>
  Bug#43729: http://bugs.mysql.com/43729.<br>
<br>
* Partitioning: An INSERT ... SELECT statement on an empty<br>
  partition of a partitioned table failed with ERROR 1030<br>
  (HY000): Got error 124 from storage engine. This issue also<br>
  caused queries run against a partitioned table while a LOAD<br>
  DATA CONCURRENT INFILE statement was in progress to fail with<br>
  the same error. (Bug#46639: http://bugs.mysql.com/46639)<br>
  See also Bug#35845: http://bugs.mysql.com/35845,<br>
  Bug#44657: http://bugs.mysql.com/44657,<br>
  Bug#45840: http://bugs.mysql.com/45840.<br>
<br>
* Partitioning: An online or fast ALTER TABLE of a partitioned<br>
  table could leave behind temporary files in the database<br>
  directory. (Bug#46483: http://bugs.mysql.com/46483)<br>
<br>
* Partitioning: A partitioned table having a TIMESTAMP column<br>
  with a default value of CURRENT_TIMESTAMP and this column was<br>
  not defined using an ON UPDATE option, an ALTER TABLE ...<br>
  REORGANIZE PARTITION statement on the table caused the<br>
  TIMESTAMP column value to be set to CURRENT_TIMESTAMP<br>
  regardless. (Bug#46478: http://bugs.mysql.com/46478)<br>
<br>
* Partitioning: Partition pruning did not always work correctly<br>
  when the table's partitioning key used the TO_DAYS() function.<br>
  (Bug#46362: http://bugs.mysql.com/46362)<br>
<br>
* Partitioning: Inserting negative values into an AUTO_INCREMENT<br>
  column of a partitioned table could lead to apparently<br>
  unrelated errors or a crash of the server.<br>
  (Bug#45823: http://bugs.mysql.com/45823)<br>
<br>
* Partitioning: Attempting to access a partitioned table when<br>
  partitioning support was disabled in a MySQL server binary<br>
  that had been compiled with partitioning support caused the<br>
  server to crash. (Bug#39893: http://bugs.mysql.com/39893)<br>
<br>
* Partitioning: Unnecessary calls were made in the server code<br>
  for performing bulk inserts on partitions for which no inserts<br>
  needed to be made. (Bug#35845: http://bugs.mysql.com/35845)<br>
  See also Bug#35843: http://bugs.mysql.com/35843.<br>
<br>
* Partitioning: The use of TO_DAYS() in the partitioning<br>
  expression led to selection failures when the column having<br>
  the date value contained invalid dates. This occurred because<br>
  the function returns NULL in such cases, and the partition<br>
  containing NULL values was pruned away. For example, this<br>
  problem occurred if '2001-02-00' was inserted into a DATE<br>
  column of such a table, and a subsequent query on this table<br>
  used WHERE date_col < '2001-02-00' --- while '2001-01-01' is<br>
  less than '2001-02-00', TO_DAYS('2001-02-00') evaluates as<br>
  NULL, and so the row containing '2001-01-01' was not returned.<br>
  Now, for tables using RANGE or LIST partitioning and having<br>
  TO_DAYS() in the partitioning expression, the NULL partition<br>
  is also scanned instead of being ignored.<br>
<br>
  The fix for this issue also corrects misbehavior such that a<br>
  query of the form SELECT * FROM table WHERE date_col <<br>
  date_val on a table partitioned by RANGE or LIST was handled<br>
  as though the server SQL mode included ALLOW_INVALID_DATES<br>
  even if this was not actually part of the server SQL mode at<br>
  the time the query was issued.<br>
  (Bug#20577: http://bugs.mysql.com/20577)<br>
  See also Bug#18198: http://bugs.mysql.com/18198,<br>
  Bug#32021: http://bugs.mysql.com/32021,<br>
  Bug#46362: http://bugs.mysql.com/46362.<br>
<br>
* Replication: Performing a multi-row update of the<br>
  AUTO_INCREMENT column of a transactional table could result in<br>
  an inconsistency between master and slave when there was a<br>
  trigger on the transactional table that updated a<br>
  non-transactional table. When such an update failed on the<br>
  master, no rows were updated on the master, but some rows<br>
  could (erroneously) be updated on the slave.<br>
  (Bug#46864: http://bugs.mysql.com/46864)<br>
<br>
* Replication: When using the --replicate-rewrite-db option and<br>
  the database referenced by this option on the master was the<br>
  current database when the connection to the slave was closed,<br>
  any temporary tables existing in this database were not<br>
  properly dropped. (Bug#46861: http://bugs.mysql.com/46861)<br>
<br>
* Replication: When a statement that changed both transactional<br>
  and non-transactional tables failed, the transactional changes<br>
  were automatically rolled back on the master but the slave<br>
  ignored the error and did not roll them back, thus leading to<br>
  inconsistencies between master and slave.<br>
<br>
  This issue is fixed by automatically rolling back a statement<br>
  that fails on the slave; however, the transaction is not<br>
  rolled back unless a corresponding ROLLBACK statement is found<br>
  in the relay log file.<br>
  (Bug#46130: http://bugs.mysql.com/46130)<br>
  See also Bug#33864: http://bugs.mysql.com/33864.<br>
<br>
* Replication: When using row-based replication, importing a<br>
  dump made with mysqldump and replicating a row with an<br>
  AUTO_INCREMENT column set to 0, with NO_AUTO_VALUE_ON_ZERO<br>
  active on the master, the row was inserted successfully on the<br>
  master; however any setting for NO_AUTO_VALUE_ON_ZERO was<br>
  ignored on the slave. When the AUTO_INCREMENT column was<br>
  incremented, this caused replication to fail on the slave due<br>
  to a duplicate key error. In some cases it could also cause<br>
  the slave to crash. (Bug#45999: http://bugs.mysql.com/45999)<br>
<br>
* Replication: When slave_transaction_retries is set, a<br>
  statement that replicates, but is then rolled back due to a<br>
  deadlock on the slave, should be retried. However, in certain<br>
  cases, replication was stopped with error 1213 (Deadlock found<br>
  when trying to get lock; try restarting transaction) instead,<br>
  even when this variable was set.<br>
  (Bug#45694: http://bugs.mysql.com/45694)<br>
<br>
* Replication: The binary logging behavior (and thus, the<br>
  replication behavior) of CREATE DATABASE IF NOT EXISTS, CREATE<br>
  TABLE IF NOT EXISTS, and CREATE EVENT IF NOT EXISTS was not<br>
  consistent among these statements, nor with that of DROP<br>
  DATABASE IF EXISTS, DROP TABLE IF EXISTS, and DROP EVENT IF<br>
  EXISTS: A DROP ... IF EXISTS statement is always logged even<br>
  if the database object named in the statement does not exist.<br>
  However, of the CREATE ... IF NOT EXISTS statements, only the<br>
  CREATE EVENT IF NOT EXISTS statement was logged when the<br>
  database object named in the statement already existed.<br>
<br>
  Now, every CREATE ... IF NOT EXISTS statement is written to<br>
  the binary log (and thus replicated), whether the database<br>
  object named in the statement exists or not. For more<br>
  information, see Section 16.3.1.3, "Replication of CREATE ...<br>
  IF NOT EXISTS Statements."<br>
<br>
  Exception.  Replication and logging of CREATE TABLE IF NOT<br>
  EXISTS ... SELECT continues to be handled according to<br>
  existing rules. See Section 16.3.1.4, "Replication of CREATE<br>
  TABLE ... SELECT Statements," for more information.<br>
  (Bug#45574: http://bugs.mysql.com/45574)<br>
<br>
* Replication: When using statement-based replication,<br>
  database-level character sets were not always honored by the<br>
  replication SQL thread. This could cause data inserted on the<br>
  master using LOAD DATA to be replicated using the wrong<br>
  character set.<br>
<br>
  Note<br>
  This was not an issue when using row-based replication.<br>
  (Bug#45516: http://bugs.mysql.com/45516)<br>
<br>
* Replication: In some cases, a STOP SLAVE statement could cause<br>
  the replication slave to crash. This issue was specific to<br>
  MySQL on Windows or Macintosh platforms.<br>
  (Bug#45238: http://bugs.mysql.com/45238,<br>
  Bug#45242: http://bugs.mysql.com/45242,<br>
  Bug#45243: http://bugs.mysql.com/45243,<br>
  Bug#46013: http://bugs.mysql.com/46013,<br>
  Bug#46014: http://bugs.mysql.com/46014,<br>
  Bug#46030: http://bugs.mysql.com/46030)<br>
  See also Bug#40796: http://bugs.mysql.com/40796.<br>
<br>
* Replication: Creating a scheduled event whose DEFINER clause<br>
  was either set to CURRENT_USER or not set explicitly caused<br>
  the master and the slave to become inconsistent. This issue<br>
  stems from the fact that, in both cases, the DEFINER is set to<br>
  the CURRENT_USER of the current thread. (On the master, the<br>
  CURRENT_USER is the mysqld user; on the slave, the<br>
  CURRENT_USER is empty.)<br>
<br>
  This behavior has been modified as follows:<br>
<br>
     + If CURRENT_USER is used as the DEFINER, it is replaced<br>
       with the value of CURRENT_USER before the CREATE EVENT<br>
       statement is written to the binary log.<br>
<br>
     + If the definer is not set explicitly, a DEFINER clause<br>
       using the value of CURRENT_USER is added to the CREATE<br>
       EVENT statement before it is written to the binary log.<br>
  (Bug#44331: http://bugs.mysql.com/44331)<br>
  See also Bug#42217: http://bugs.mysql.com/42217.<br>
<br>
* Replication: When using the statement-based logging format,<br>
  the only possible safe combination of transactional and<br>
  non-transactional statements within the same transaction is to<br>
  perform any updates on non-transactional tables (such as<br>
  MyISAM tables) first, before updating any transactional tables<br>
  (such as those using the InnoDB storage engine). This is due<br>
  to the fact that, although a modification made to a<br>
  non-transactional table is immediately visible to other<br>
  connections, the update is not immediately written to the<br>
  binary log, which can lead to inconsistencies between master<br>
  and slave. (Other combinations may hide a causal dependency,<br>
  thus making it impossible to write statements updating<br>
  non-transactional tables to the binary log in the correct<br>
  order.)<br>
<br>
  However, in some cases, this situation was not handled<br>
  properly, and the determination whether a given statement was<br>
  safe or not under these conditions was not always correct. In<br>
  particular, a multi-table update that affected both<br>
  transactional and non-transactional tables or a statement<br>
  modifying data in a non-transactional table having a trigger<br>
  that operated on a transactional table (or the reverse) was<br>
  not determined to be unsafe when it should have been.<br>
<br>
  With this fix, the following determinations regarding<br>
  replication safety are made when combining updates to<br>
  transactional and non-transactional tables within the same<br>
  transaction in statement-based logging mode:<br>
<br>
    1. Any statement modifying data in a non-transactional table<br>
       within a given transaction is considered safe if it is<br>
       issued prior to any data modification statement accessing<br>
       a transactional table within the same transaction.<br>
<br>
    2. A statement that updates transactional tables only is<br>
       always considered safe.<br>
<br>
    3. A statement affecting both transactional and<br>
       non-transactional tables within a transaction is always<br>
       considered unsafe. It is not necessary that both tables<br>
       be modified for this to be true; for example, a statement<br>
       such as INSERT INTO innodb_table SELECT * FROM<br>
       myisam_table is also considered unsafe.<br>
<br>
  Note<br>
  The current fix is valid only when using statement-based<br>
  logging mode; we plan to address similar issues occurring when<br>
  using the MIXED or ROW format in a future MySQL release.<br>
  (Bug#28976: http://bugs.mysql.com/28976)<br>
<br>
* The ARCHIVE storage engine lost records during a bulk insert.<br>
  (Bug#46961: http://bugs.mysql.com/46961)<br>
<br>
* CONCAT_WS() could return incorrect results due to an argument<br>
  buffer also being used as a result buffer.<br>
  (Bug#46815: http://bugs.mysql.com/46815)<br>
<br>
* Stack overflow checking did not account for the size of the<br>
  structure stored in the heap.<br>
  (Bug#46807: http://bugs.mysql.com/46807)<br>
<br>
* The server crashed when re-using outer column references in<br>
  correlated subqueries when the enclosing query used a temp<br>
  table. (Bug#46791: http://bugs.mysql.com/46791)<br>
<br>
* The server could crash for queries with the following<br>
  elements: 1. An "impossible where" in the outermost SELECT; 2.<br>
  An aggregate in the outermost SELECT; 3. A correlated subquery<br>
  with a WHERE clause that includes an outer field reference as<br>
  a top-level WHERE sargable predicate;<br>
  (Bug#46749: http://bugs.mysql.com/46749)<br>
<br>
* Assertion failure could result from repeated execution of a<br>
  stored procedure containing an incorrect query with a<br>
  subselect. (Bug#46629: http://bugs.mysql.com/46629)<br>
<br>
* CREATE TABLE ... SELECT could cause assertion failure if a<br>
  table already existed with the same name and contained an<br>
  AUTO_INCREMENT column.<br>
  (Bug#46616: http://bugs.mysql.com/46616)<br>
<br>
* SHOW CREATE TRIGGER for a MERGE table trigger caused an<br>
  assertion failure. (Bug#46614: http://bugs.mysql.com/46614)<br>
<br>
* In queries for which the loose index scan access method was<br>
  chosen, using a condition of the form col_name rather than the<br>
  equivalent col_name <> 0 caused an assertion failure.<br>
  (Bug#46607: http://bugs.mysql.com/46607)<br>
<br>
* The server ignored the setting of sync_frm for CREATE TABLE<br>
  ... LIKE. (Bug#46591: http://bugs.mysql.com/46591)<br>
<br>
* TRUNCATE TABLE for a table that was opened with HANDLER did<br>
  not close the handler and left it in an inconsistent state<br>
  that could lead to a server crash. Now TRUNCATE TABLE for a<br>
  table closes all open handlers for the table.<br>
  (Bug#46456: http://bugs.mysql.com/46456)<br>
<br>
* An attempt to create a table with the same name as an existing<br>
  view could cause a server crash.<br>
  (Bug#46384: http://bugs.mysql.com/46384)<br>
<br>
* A parser problem prevented properly stripping backquotes from<br>
  an argument to a user-defined function (UDF). If the UDF was<br>
  in an ORDER BY clause, its name would not be properly resolved<br>
  against an alias with the same name in the select list.<br>
  (Bug#46259: http://bugs.mysql.com/46259)<br>
<br>
* A query containing a subquery in the FROM clause and PROCEDURE<br>
  ANALYSE() caused a server crash.<br>
  (Bug#46184: http://bugs.mysql.com/46184)<br>
<br>
* Certain SELECT statements containing DISTINCT, GROUP BY, and<br>
  HAVING clauses could hang in an infinite loop.<br>
  (Bug#46159: http://bugs.mysql.com/46159)<br>
<br>
* Killing a query that was performing a sort could result in a<br>
  memory leak. (Bug#45962: http://bugs.mysql.com/45962)<br>
<br>
* A Valgrind error when opening the init_file file was<br>
  corrected. (Bug#45894: http://bugs.mysql.com/45894)<br>
<br>
* CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE failed for InnoDB tables on systems<br>
  with case-insensitive file systems when lower_case_table_names<br>
  = 2 and the pathname of the temporary file directory contained<br>
  uppercase characters. (Bug#45638: http://bugs.mysql.com/45638)<br>
<br>
* Truncation of DECIMAL values could lead to assertion failures;<br>
  for example, when deducing the type of a table column from a<br>
  literal DECIMAL value.<br>
  (Bug#45261: http://bugs.mysql.com/45261)<br>
<br>
* Debug builds of the server on Windows crashed in debugging<br>
  code. (Bug#45118: http://bugs.mysql.com/45118)<br>
<br>
* The default value of innodb_buffer_pool_size was set to 1GB in<br>
  MySQL 5.4.0. This was too large for many installations, so the<br>
  default has been lowered to 128MB.<br>
  (Bug#44408: http://bugs.mysql.com/44408)<br>
<br>
* SHOW ERRORS returned an empty result set after an attempt to<br>
  drop a nonexistent table.<br>
  (Bug#42364: http://bugs.mysql.com/42364)<br>
<br>
* A test for stack growth failed on some platforms, leading to<br>
  server crashes. (Bug#42213: http://bugs.mysql.com/42213)<br>
<br>
* A buffer overflow could occur during handling of IS NULL<br>
  ranges. (Bug#37044: http://bugs.mysql.com/37044)<br>
<br>
* mysqladmin --wait ping crashed on Windows systems.<br>
  (Bug#35132: http://bugs.mysql.com/35132)<br>
<br>
* myisamchk performed parameter value casting at startup that<br>
  generated unnecessary warning messages.<br>
  (Bug#33785: http://bugs.mysql.com/33785)<br>
<br>
* When using the ARCHIVE storage engine, SHOW TABLE STATUS<br>
  displayed incorrect information for Max_data_length,<br>
  Data_length and Avg_row_length.<br>
  (Bug#29203: http://bugs.mysql.com/29203)<br>
<br>
<br>
