---
title: "MySQL 5.1.60 リリース"
tag: "MySQL 5.1"
date: 2011-11-18 21:00:00 +0900
---

MySQL 5.1.60 がリリースされました。<br>
<br>
ダウンロードは、こちらから。<br>
http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/mysql/5.1.html<br>
<br>
−−−−<br>
以下、チェンジログ：<br>
■機能の追加と変更<br>
<br>
      * Upgrading from an Advanced GPL RPM package to an Advanced RPM<br>
        package did not work. Now on Linux it is possible to use rpm<br>
        -U to replace any installed MySQL product by any other of the<br>
        same release family. It is not necessary to remove the old<br>
        produce with rpm -e first. (Bug #11886309)<br>
<br>
      * MEMORY table creation time is now available in the CREATE_TIME<br>
        column of the INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TABLES table and the<br>
        Create_time column of SHOW TABLE STATUS output. (Bug #51655,<br>
        Bug #11759349)<br>
<br>
<br>
■バグ修正<br>
<br>
      * InnoDB Storage Engine: This fix improves the performance of<br>
        instrumentation code for InnoDB buffer pool operations. (Bug<br>
        #12950803, Bug #62294)<br>
<br>
      * InnoDB Storage Engine: Data from BLOB columns could be lost if<br>
        the server crashed at a precise moment when other columns were<br>
        being updated in an InnoDB table. (Bug #12704861)<br>
<br>
      * InnoDB Storage Engine: Lookups using secondary indexes could<br>
        give incorrect matches under a specific set of conditions. The<br>
        conditions involve an index defined on a column prefix, for a<br>
        BLOB or other long column stored outside the index page, with<br>
        a table using the Barracuda file format. (Bug #12601439)<br>
<br>
      * InnoDB Storage Engine: This fix corrects cases where the MySQL<br>
        server could hang or abort with a long semaphore wait message.<br>
        (This is a different issue than when these symptoms occurred<br>
        during a CHECK TABLE statement.) (Bug #11766591, Bug #59733)<br>
<br>
      * Replication: Issuing the following statements, in the order<br>
        shown, could cause a deadlock between the user thread and I/O<br>
        thread:<br>
START SLAVE;<br>
STOP SLAVE SQL_THREAD;<br>
START SLAVE;<br>
        (Bug #11878104)<br>
        See also Bug #44312, Bug #11752963, Bug #38715, Bug #38716.<br>
<br>
      * Internal conversion of zero to binary and back could yield a<br>
        result with incorrect precision. (Bug #12911710)<br>
<br>
      * Valgrind warnings generated by filesort operations were fixed.<br>
        (Bug #12856915)<br>
<br>
      * Several improvements were made to the libedit library bundled<br>
        with MySQL distributions, and that is available for all<br>
        platforms that MySQL supports except Windows.<br>
<br>
           + Navigation keys did not work for UTF-8 input.<br>
<br>
           + Word navigation and delete operations did not work for<br>
             UTF-8 input with Cyrillic characters.<br>
<br>
           + Nonlatin characters were corrupted in overwrite mode for<br>
             UTF-8 input.<br>
<br>
           + Long queries caused the statement history file to become<br>
             corrupted.<br>
<br>
           + The Alt key caused history operations to fail.<br>
        (Bug #12605400, Bug #12613725, Bug #12618092, Bug #12624155,<br>
        Bug #12617651, Bug #12605388)<br>
<br>
      * The help message for mysql_install_db did not indicate that it<br>
        supports the --defaults-file, --defaults-extra-file and<br>
        --no-defaults options. (Bug #58898, Bug #11765888)<br>
<br>
      * An assertion designed to detect zero-length sort keys also was<br>
        raised when the entire key set fit in memory. (Bug #58200, Bug<br>
        #11765254)<br>
<br>
      * myisampack could create corrupt FULLTEXT indexes when<br>
        compressing tables. (Bug #53646, Bug #11761180)<br>
<br>
      * OPTIMIZE TABLE could corrupt MyISAM tables if myisam_use_mmap<br>
        was enabled. (Bug #49030, Bug #11757032)<br>
<br>
      * If MySQL was configured with --without-plugin-innobase and<br>
        --with-plugin-innodb_plugin, to suppress building the built-in<br>
        InnoDB storage engine and build the InnoDB Plugin instead, the<br>
        innochecksum utility was not built. (Bug #47337, Bug<br>
        #11755544)<br>
<br>
      * A linking problem prevented the FEDERATED storage engine<br>
        plugin from loading. (Bug #40942, Bug #11750417)<br>
<br>
      * On Fedora, certain accesses to /var/lib/mysql/HOSTNAME.err<br>
        were blocked by SELinux policy, which made the server fail at<br>
        startup with the message: Manager of pid-file quit without<br>
        updating file (Bug #37165, Bug #12927740)<br>
<br>
      * For FEDERATED tables, loss of connection to the remote table<br>
        during some insert operations could cause a server crash. (Bug<br>
        #34660, Bug #11747970)<br>
<br>
